Release notes for v6.0.2 (#3334)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/changes/changes-ee-v6.md

# EMQX Enterprise Version 6

## 6.0.2

*Release Date: 2026-01-16*

Make sure to check the breaking changes and known issues before upgrading to EMQX 6.0.2.

### Enhancements

#### Security

- [#16461](https://github.com/emqx/emqx/pull/16461) EMQX now supports TLS 1.3 session resumption using stateless session tickets, allowing clients to resume TLS connections without requiring server-side session state.

  **Configuration**

  - **Node-level**: `node.tls_stateless_tickets_seed`

    Secret key seed used to generate TLS 1.3 stateless session tickets.

  - **Listener-level**: `listeners.ssl.<name>.ssl_options.session_tickets`

    Enables TLS 1.3 session resumption. Supported values:

    - `disabled` (default)
    - `stateless`
    - `stateless_with_cert` (includes certificate information in the ticket)

  **Notes**

  - Session tickets are generated only when `node.tls_stateless_tickets_seed` is configured (non-empty), and `session_tickets` is enabled in listener SSL options.
  - If `session_tickets` is enabled but `node.tls_stateless_tickets_seed` is empty, session tickets will not be generated and an error log will be emitted when starting the listener.

>   This PR also included a fix for the TLS 1.2 session resumption configuration: previously, the `reuse_sessions` option for SSL listener did not take effect, i.e. EMQX always tried to enable TLS 1.2 session resumption. It is now possible to turn it off. Please note that TLS 1.2 session resumption will be disabled by default starting version 6.2.0.

Author: ```suggestion
  This PR also included a fix for the TLS 1.2 session resumption configuration. Previously, the `reuse_sessions` option for SSL listener did not take effect, i.e. EMQX always tried to enable TLS 1.2 session resumption. It is now possible to turn it off. Please note that TLS 1.2 session resumption will be disabled by default starting version 6.2.0.
```

- [#16465](https://github.com/emqx/emqx/pull/16465) Upgraded `gen_rpc` to `3.5.1`.

  Before the `gen_rpc` upgrade, EMQX may experience a long tail of crash logs due to a connect timeout if a peer node is unreachable. The new version of gen_rpc no longer has the long tail and has converted crash logs to more readable error logs. Additionally, the frequent log `"failed_to_connect_server"` is also throttled to avoid spamming.

- [#16544](https://github.com/emqx/emqx/pull/16544) Improved the robustness of the cluster autoclean procedure. Previously, if the autoclean feature was disabled during the initial startup of a node, it would not be activated after subsequent configuration changes.

#### Upgrade

- [#16308](https://github.com/emqx/emqx/pull/16308) Fixed an issue where Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) could not be enabled after upgrading EMQX from versions earlier than 5.3.0 due to incompatible login-user database records.

#### Configuration Management

- [#16397](https://github.com/emqx/emqx/pull/16397) Added TLS certificate and key file validation before listener startup.

>   Added some basic validations when parsing the SSL listener config, and error level log is raised if invalid PEM files are found. For example: `invalid_pem_file_ignored` and `bad_keyfile_ignored`. This makes troubleshooting easier as admin is able to observe error when starting/reconfiguring, instead of troubleshooting TLS handshake failures.

Author: ```suggestion
  EMQX now performs basic validation when parsing SSL listener configuration and emits error-level logs if invalid PEM files are detected (for example, `invalid_pem_file_ignored` and `bad_keyfile_ignored`). This makes troubleshooting easier as administrators can observe errors when starting/reconfiguring, instead of troubleshooting TLS handshake failures.
```
